Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is Charlie Caldwell, Senator S. Keef
Arvers Administrative Assistant. I have him back from Tennessee now and I'd like to
ask him about the latest developments on the TVA self-financing bill.
Well, Charlie Caldwell, as you know, the bill was brought out from the Public Works Committee
about ten days ago, but then some opposition came about as to the territorial expansion
two and a half percent of the territory and so it was referred back to the Public Works Committee
and now it's been brought out again in its ready-for-centage action. The bill as it now stands
allows the TVA to sell bonds up to the extent of $750 million at any one time. Then it has
a provision for a maximum expansion of territory by two and a half percent to take care of unusual
frame situations or the increase in the population of a community on the border. That was what
was subjected to. In the Committee of the Second Time, it was provided that not more than
one fourth or twenty percent of this two and a half percent could be used to expand the
territory in any one state. So that seems to be satisfactory and by the time we report
to you next week we hope very much that the TVA self-financing bill will have been considered
by the Senate in past and we hope that he's going to be signed by the President.
Senator, I believe you and several colleagues had an opportunity to show Senator Kerr
of Oklahoma the TVA system the past week. Is that correct?
Yes, we had a wonderful trip down to the TVA to the Valley and I've been seeing all the
dams and fertilizer plants and the steam plants many times but Senator Kerr of Oklahoma has
chairman of the subcommittee that handles TVA and the Public Works Committee has been,
of course, our great friend and has handled the self-financing bill so that Senator Gore
and Senator Sparkman and I along with General Vogel and Mr. Jones of the TVA board, Mr.
Wesson-Hauer, the power head of the power development and others. We went down to see the TVA.
We circled around most of the great many of the dams beginning at South Holston. We would
see the reservoir, the lake and the house being developed for recreation and we'd see the dam.
We stopped at Knoxville for a little while and visited with friends there, then went
over to Kingston's steam plant and down to Chattanooga where we had lunch for the TVA
power board and many public officials' matters. Then we visited the fertilizer plant and Wilson
dam down at Muscle Shoals and the people in that section had a big chamber of commerce
meeting for us. Governor Ellington joined us at Knoxville and he was very good to have
him, he and Senator Kerr old friends and so great time has had by all Senator Kerr was
very much impressed. Senator, I understand that you came out on the
short end of a discussion about the relative merit of Black Angus cattle and white-faced
herfers. Well, when we weren't busy looking at dams or steam plants, the discussion was
about the merits of Black Angus at which Senator Kerr and Governor Ellington, Senator
Gore or Advocates and I tried to hold up a little bit the other side because my aunt
has white-faced herfers but it was three to one so I don't know, I guess they won the
argument. Senator, we have just a few moments more. Would you tell us what's going on in
the bread hearings with the Antitrust Subcommittee? I'd like to introduce Rand Dixon's chief
counsel for that committee. Yes, we've been having hearings about bread and Rand who
comes from Nashville is our chief counsel of our monopoly committee and also the head
of the Tennessee State Society here in Washington. So you tell us about it Rand? Well, we've
had some very interesting hearings you know Senator, we are trying to understand why
the price of bread in the last ten years has gone up from 12.5 cents to approximately
19.5 cents while at the same time the farmer is getting less for a bushel of wheat. Well,
what are we finding out about it? Well, we are finding this out, sir, that the large
major bakery chains have a systematic type of pricing where prices will be high we might
say in the metropolitan area and low and small areas. Well, fortunately it's not as high
in Tennessee as in some of the larger cities of the northeast and maybe we can discuss
this more next time. That's all for now and thank you very much until next week.